## solr-spatial

solr-spatial is a lightweight Solr plugin that exposes the geographical search
capabilities of lucene-spatial. Its aim is to be unobtrusive, unopinionated,
and semantic.

### Installation and Setup

First, clone the latest source from GitHub:

    $ git clone git://github.com/outoftime/solr-spatial.git

If you don't have git and don't want to install it, you can also download a
tarball or zip archive from http://github.com/outoftime/solr-spatial (look for
the "Download Source" link.

Next, build the application and copy the jars into your solr installation:

    $ cd solr-spatial
    $ ant
    $ cp dist/solr-spatial.jar lib/lucene-spatial-2.9.1-dev.jar $SOLR_HOME/lib

Replace `$SOLR_HOME` with the directory that contains your `conf/` and (maybe)
`data/` directories. It might not have a `lib/` directory; you should create it.
Don't confuse this with the topmost folder of the example Solr install, which
also contains a `lib/` directory (along with `start.jar`).

Now, you'll need to add the solr-spatial search component to your
solrconfig.xml:

    <searchComponent name="spatial" class="me.outofti.solrspatial.SpatialQueryComponent" />

Then you'll need to add that search component into your standard request
handler. Look for the node &lt;requestHandler name="standard" ...&gt; node in
your `solrconfig.xml`, and add the spatial component as follows:

    <requestHandler name="standard" class="solr.searchHandler" default="true">
      <arr name="last-components">
        <str>spatial</str>
      </arr>
    </requestHandler>

Your schema.xml will need a latitude field and a longitude field of type
`TrieDoubleField`. These can be called whatever you'd like, but the default is
`"lat"` and `"lng"`, so here's that:

    <field name="lat"  type="tdouble" indexed="true" stored="false" />
    <field name="lng"  type="tdouble" indexed="true" stored="false" />

And you're done.

### Performing spatial searches

solr-spatial allows you to perform distance-based filtering and sorting. In any
given search, you can filter, sort, or do both (or neither) based on distance
from a given geographical location. The entire spatial component of your search
is specified in the `spatial` parameter. Here's an example of what the spatial
parameter would look like:

    spatial={!radius=10.0 sort=true}lat:40.0,lng:-70.0

This will instruct solr-spatial to only return results whose `"lat"` and `"lng"`
fields contain coordinates within 10 miles of &lt;40,-70&gt;, and to sort the
results in ascending order of distance from that location. Both the `radius` and
the `sort` local parameters are optional; however, if neither is specified, then
the spatial request will have no effect other than a performance penalty. Note
also that `"lat"` and `"lng"` are the default field names for those fields, and thus
can be omitted in this case (`"40.0,-70.0"` would have been equivalent). They
are included here for clarity.

You can combine spatial sorting with other sorts. If you specify one or more
field sorts in the `sort` parameter, they will take precedence over spatial
sort. This is because it is unlikely that any two documents will have equal
distance from the centerpoint; thus giving spatial sort precedence over any
other sort would have the same effect as removing that sort altogether.

### Feedback, etc.

Feedback, suggestions, bug reports, mild insults, etc. are extremely welcome.
Please deliver them via a GitHub message.
